# PF Ch6. Assessment of L2 Pronunciation

1. Introduction
2. Testing pronunciation in the classroom
3. Testing pronunciation beyond the classroom
4. Reliability and validity
5. Technology and assessment
6. Summary

## Excerpt: 
+ Creating written exam questions to assess pronunciation?
+ Assessment to test aural/oral skills

# 1. Introduction

+ Diagnostic test
+ Achievement test
+ Proficiency test – educational institutes for admission purposes

# 2. Testing pronunciation in the classroom

- Students have different pronunciation needs. They may be unable to pinpoint the sources of their difficulties themselves. (self-assessment is not easy)
- Students find their communication difficulties from pronunciation but they are unable to identify what the problems are.
- The purpose of assessment is not solely to identify what one does wrong, it is about what matters for communication.

## [1] Needs assessment

- A needs assessment is a type of diagnostic test, commonly administered at the beginning of a course of instruction.
- Its goal is to identify the students’ current capabilities and to determine directions for instructions over the semester.
- It is valuable for turning instruction to the individual needs of the learners.
- It provides a basis for the development of lesson plans and suitable activities that will address each student’s needs.

 Q: What makes a good initial needs assessment?
□ Fast implementations: should be brief and easy to use. (e.g., checklist)
□ Recording: digital recording (using Audacity or Praat)
□ Multiple elicitations: (tasks  affect types of errors;  Levis & Barriuso, 2012 – conversation vs. read-aloud) Combination of elicitation methods can be used. Reading material should correspond to idiomatic spoken language.
□ Issues known to be important for intelligibility: segments, prosody, speaking habits, etc.
□ Perception: (the ability to perceive and the ability to produce are related.) Do a perception test.
□ Outcomes: personal feedback and recommendations


## [2] Formative assessment

- The main purpose of formative assessment or progress testing is to determine whether the instruction provided has been beneficial and whether goals have been achieved.
- It helps to set new goals and to determine whether other problems have developed.
- It is not that different from needs assessment but the formative assessment is narrower in scope. (e.g., identified errors)

## [3] Summative assessments

- This is intended to determine a student’s attainment at the end of a course of instruction.
- To determine level changes (when required)
- Similar to Formative assessement

## [4] Test materials

- Sources vary.

A Closer Look: Testing pronunciation through written tests? (Weak correlation/irrelevant to actual skill?)

## [5] What does the instructor need to know to evaluate effectively?

- Sound inventory, phonetic symbols, the nature of L2 articulations and instructions (how to modify segmental productions), understanding of articulatory relationships among sounds, the nature of prosodic elements (stress, rhythm, intonation)
- Accurate pronunciation assessment also requires an ability to approach L2 speech analytically.
- Insights into the pronunciation learning process
- Ability to recognize different learning trajectories

# 3. Testing pronunciation beyond the classroom
# 4. Reliability and validity
# 5. Technology and assessment
# 6. Summary


